types/extensions/transition.coffee.md, before:

Transition @modifier
==========

#### Item transition @snippet

```style
Rectangle {
  width: 100; height: 100;
  color: 'red'

  pointer.onClicked: function(){
    this.x = Math.random()*300;
  }

  Transition {
  	property: 'x'
  	animation: NumberAnimation {
  	  duration: 1500
  	}
  }
}
```

	'use strict'

	utils = require 'utils'
	assert = require 'assert'
	signal = require 'signal'
	log = require 'log'

	log = log.scope 'Renderer', 'Transition'

	module.exports = (Renderer, Impl, itemUtils) -> class Transition extends Renderer.Extension
		@__name__ = 'Transition'

*Transition* Transition()
-------------------------

		constructor: (component, opts) ->
			@_animation = null
			@_property = ''
			@_duration = 0
			@_to = 0
			@_durationUpdatePending = false
			super component, opts

		listener = (oldVal) ->
			{animation} = @
			to = @_target[@property]
			if not @_isReady or not @running or animation.updatePending or not utils.isFloat(oldVal) or not utils.isFloat(to)
				return

			@_to = to

			{progress} = animation
			animation.stop()
			@_durationUpdatePending = true
			animation.duration = @_duration
			@_durationUpdatePending = false

			if animation.from is oldVal and animation.to is @_to
				return

			animation.from = oldVal
			animation.to = @_to
			if progress > 0
				@_durationUpdatePending = true
				animation.duration = @_duration * progress
				@_durationUpdatePending = false

			animation.start()
			signal.STOP_PROPAGATION

*Boolean* Transition::when
--------------------------

### *Signal* Transition::onWhenChange(*Boolean* oldValue)

*Renderer.Item* Transition::target
----------------------------------

### *Signal* Transition::onTargetChange([*Renderer.Item* oldValue])

		onTargetReady = ->
			@_running = true

		itemUtils.defineProperty
			constructor: @
			name: 'target'
			setter: (_super) -> (val) ->
				oldVal = @target
				if oldVal is val
					return

				{animation, property} = @

				if animation
					animation.target = val
					animation.stop()

				_super.call @, val

				@_running = false
				if val instanceof itemUtils.Object
					item = val
				else if val instanceof itemUtils.MutableDeepObject
					item = val._ref
				else
					setImmediate onTargetReady.bind(@)

				if item
					@_running = true
					# else
					# 	item.onReady onTargetReady, @

				if property
					handlerName = "on#{utils.capitalize(property)}Change"
					if oldVal
						oldVal[handlerName]?.disconnect listener, @

					if val
						if handlerName of val
							val[handlerName] listener, @
						else
							log.error "'#{property}' property signal not found"
				return

*Renderer.Animation* Transition::animation
------------------------------------------

### Transition::onAnimationChange(*Renderer.Animation* oldValue)

		onDurationChange = ->
			unless @_durationUpdatePending
				@_duration = @_animation._duration
			return

		itemUtils.defineProperty
			constructor: @
			name: 'animation'
			developmentSetter: (val) ->
				assert.instanceOf val, Renderer.Animation if val?
			setter: (_super) -> (val) ->
				oldVal = @animation
				if oldVal is val
					return

				_super.call @, val

				if oldVal
					oldVal.onDurationChange.disconnect onDurationChange, @
					oldVal.stop()

				if val
					val.onDurationChange onDurationChange, @
					@_duration = val.duration
					val.target = @target
					val.property = @property
				return

*String* Transition::property
-----------------------------

### Transition::onPropertyChange(*String* oldValue)

		itemUtils.defineProperty
			constructor: @
			name: 'property'
			setter: (_super) -> (val) ->
				oldVal = @property
				if oldVal is val
					return

				{animation, target} = @

				if target and val.indexOf('.') isnt -1
					chains = val.split '.'
					n = chains.length
					for chain, i in chains when i < n-1
						target = target[chain]
						unless target
							log.error "No object found for the '#{val}' property"
							break
					val = chains[n-1]
					@target = target

				if animation
					animation.stop()
					animation.property = val

				_super.call @, val

				if target
					if oldVal
						handlerName = "on#{utils.capitalize(oldVal)}Change"
						target[handlerName].disconnect listener, @

					if val
						handlerName = "on#{utils.capitalize(val)}Change"
						target[handlerName] listener, @
				return

Commit message:

Component Extensions and Transition bug fixes

types/extensions/transition.coffee.md, after:

Transition @modifier
==========

#### Item transition @snippet

```style
Rectangle {
  width: 100; height: 100;
  color: 'red'

  pointer.onClicked: function(){
    this.x = Math.random()*300;
  }

  Transition {
  	property: 'x'
  	animation: NumberAnimation {
  	  duration: 1500
  	}
  }
}
```

	'use strict'

	utils = require 'utils'
	assert = require 'assert'
	signal = require 'signal'
	log = require 'log'

	log = log.scope 'Renderer', 'Transition'

	module.exports = (Renderer, Impl, itemUtils) -> class Transition extends Renderer.Extension
		@__name__ = 'Transition'

*Transition* Transition()
-------------------------

		constructor: (component, opts) ->
			@_animation = null
			@_property = ''
			@_duration = 0
			@_to = 0
			@_durationUpdatePending = false
			super component, opts

		listener = (oldVal) ->
			{animation} = @
			to = @_target[@property]
			if not animation or not @running or animation.updatePending or not utils.isFloat(oldVal) or not utils.isFloat(to)
				return

			@_to = to

			{progress} = animation
			animation.stop()
			@_durationUpdatePending = true
			animation.duration = @_duration
			@_durationUpdatePending = false

			if animation.from is oldVal and animation.to is @_to
				return

			animation.from = oldVal
			animation.to = @_to
			if progress > 0
				@_durationUpdatePending = true
				animation.duration = @_duration * progress
				@_durationUpdatePending = false

			animation.start()
			signal.STOP_PROPAGATION

*Boolean* Transition::when
--------------------------

### *Signal* Transition::onWhenChange(*Boolean* oldValue)

*Renderer.Item* Transition::target
----------------------------------

### *Signal* Transition::onTargetChange([*Renderer.Item* oldValue])

		onTargetReady = ->
			@_running = true

		itemUtils.defineProperty
			constructor: @
			name: 'target'
			setter: (_super) -> (val) ->
				oldVal = @target
				if oldVal is val
					return

				{animation, property} = @

				if animation
					animation.target = val
					animation.stop()

				_super.call @, val

				if oldVal
					utils.remove oldVal._extensions, @

				@_running = false
				if val instanceof itemUtils.Object
					item = val
				else if val instanceof itemUtils.MutableDeepObject
					item = val._ref
				else
					setImmediate onTargetReady.bind(@)

				if item
					item._extensions.push @
					@_running = true
					# else
					# 	item.onReady onTargetReady, @

				if property
					handlerName = "on#{utils.capitalize(property)}Change"
					if oldVal
						oldVal[handlerName]?.disconnect listener, @

					if val
						if handlerName of val
							val[handlerName] listener, @
						else
							log.error "'#{property}' property signal not found"
				return

*Renderer.Animation* Transition::animation
------------------------------------------

### Transition::onAnimationChange(*Renderer.Animation* oldValue)

		onDurationChange = ->
			unless @_durationUpdatePending
				@_duration = @_animation._duration
			return

		itemUtils.defineProperty
			constructor: @
			name: 'animation'
			developmentSetter: (val) ->
				assert.instanceOf val, Renderer.Animation if val?
			setter: (_super) -> (val) ->
				oldVal = @animation
				if oldVal is val
					return

				_super.call @, val

				if oldVal
					oldVal.onDurationChange.disconnect onDurationChange, @
					oldVal.stop()

				if val
					val.onDurationChange onDurationChange, @
					@_duration = val.duration
					val.target = @target
					val.property = @property
				return

*String* Transition::property
-----------------------------

### Transition::onPropertyChange(*String* oldValue)

		itemUtils.defineProperty
			constructor: @
			name: 'property'
			setter: (_super) -> (val) ->
				oldVal = @property
				if oldVal is val
					return

				{animation, target} = @

				if target and val.indexOf('.') isnt -1
					chains = val.split '.'
					n = chains.length
					for chain, i in chains when i < n-1
						target = target[chain]
						unless target
							log.error "No object found for the '#{val}' property"
							break
					val = chains[n-1]
					@target = target

				if animation
					animation.stop()
					animation.property = val

				_super.call @, val

				if target
					if oldVal
						handlerName = "on#{utils.capitalize(oldVal)}Change"
						target[handlerName].disconnect listener, @

					if val
						handlerName = "on#{utils.capitalize(val)}Change"
						target[handlerName] listener, @
				return
